README.md, before:

# yuukafetch
yuukafetch is a tool for batch downloading arts (and other files) from Gelbooru. It can both download arts and filter good arts to other directory (user involved)

## Build
Just run `go build` and you're good to go (currently there is no autobuild in CI)

## How to use
1. Write your config and place in one of the following locations:
    * `./config.yaml` (in your working directory)
    * `~/.config/yuukafetch/config.yaml`
    * `/etc/yuukafetch/config.yaml`

   Writing config is described in next chapter
2. Run `yuukafetch --help` to get understanding of yuukafetch features

### Root command
Arguments always override config values.


Arguments:
* `-c`/`--config`: Set config file to use (path to file)
* `-h`/`--help`: Show help message
* `-q`/`--quiet`: Be as quiet as possible (only shows errors, disables progressbar)
* `-v`/`--verbose`: Be as verbose as possible (disables progressbar)
* `--api_key`: Gelbooru API Key, optional
* `--user_id`: Gelbooru User ID, optional

Subcommands (yuukafetch modes):
* `fetch`: Batch downloads files from Gelbooru
* `pick`: Launcher chooser (basically image/video viewer) for you, and then asks to pick art or not

### Fetch mode
Arguments:
* `-d`/`--download`: Download specific profile (ignores autodownload, skips other profiles), refer to config chapter
* `-t`/`--thread`: Specify count of threads to download files

### Pick mode
Arguments:
* Pick mode is only (for now) mode to require positional argument, it's download profile, example: `yuukafetch pick yuuka`
* `--chooser`: Define chooser command, separated by commas, refer to recommendations chapter to choose best chooser (🐳)

## Config
Sample config:
```yaml
verbose: false
quiet: false
chooser: ["feh", "-."]
api_key: xd
user_id: 0
threads: 5

downloads:
  - name: default
    autodownload: true
    tags: ""
    lastid: 999999999999
    outputdir: "./output"
    pickdir: "./pick"
    checkdirs:
      - ./pick
```

Explanation:
* `verbose` — Equivalent to `-v`/`--verbose` global flag
* `quiet` — Equivalent to `-q`/`--quiet` global flag
* `chooser` — Equivalent to `--chooser` pick flag, except it's defined as yaml list/array
* `api_key` — Equivalent to `--api_key` global flag
* `user_id` — Equivalent to `--user_id` global flag
* `threads` — Equivalent to `-t`/`--threads` fetch flag
* `downloads` — Array of this structure:
    * `name` — Download identifier, shows when downloading
    * `autodownload` — Set false to not download automatically, use `-d`/`--download` flag to manually download
    * `tags` — Gelbooru search tags
    * `lastid` — Last downloaded post ID, fetcher stops when post ID is lesser than last ID, set to 0 to download all
    * `outputdir` — Directory to download files to, should exist!
    * `pickdir` — Directory to move files to if picked, should exist too!
    * `checkdirs` — Array of directories to check images, if image exists in those folders it will not be downloaded, may not exists

Only fields that is required: `downloads` and it's children

## Recommendations
1. Set chooser to `mpv --loop --autofit=90%x90%` if you plan to pick videos, but mpv is so much slower, be warned
2. One Ctrl+C is enough, please wait for arts to download to avoid corrupted files
3. Include pickdir into checkdirs (if it doesn't contradict your usage of program), just in case

Commit message:

filter directories from pick, add "back" functionality

README.md, after:

# yuukafetch
yuukafetch is a tool for batch downloading arts (and other files) from Gelbooru. It can both download arts and filter good arts to other directory (user involved)

## Build
Just run `go build` and you're good to go (currently there is no autobuild in CI)

## How to use
1. Write your config and place in one of the following locations:
    * `./config.yaml` (in your working directory)
    * `~/.config/yuukafetch/config.yaml`
    * `/etc/yuukafetch/config.yaml`

   Writing config is described in next chapter
2. Run `yuukafetch --help` to get understanding of yuukafetch features

### Root command
Arguments always override config values.


Arguments:
* `-c`/`--config`: Set config file to use (path to file)
* `-h`/`--help`: Show help message
* `-q`/`--quiet`: Be as quiet as possible (only shows errors, disables progressbar)
* `-v`/`--verbose`: Be as verbose as possible (disables progressbar)
* `--api_key`: Gelbooru API Key, optional
* `--user_id`: Gelbooru User ID, optional

Subcommands (yuukafetch modes):
* `fetch`: Batch downloads files from Gelbooru
* `pick`: Launcher chooser (basically image/video viewer) for you, and then asks to pick art or not

### Fetch mode
Arguments:
* `-d`/`--download`: Download specific profile (ignores autodownload, skips other profiles), refer to config chapter
* `-t`/`--thread`: Specify count of threads to download files

### Pick mode
Arguments:
* Pick mode is only (for now) mode to require positional argument, it's download profile, example: `yuukafetch pick yuuka`
* `--chooser`: Define chooser command, separated by commas, refer to recommendations chapter to choose best chooser (🐳)

Pick mode is easy:
1. Yuukafetch launcher chooser cmd to show you file
2. You enter one of following values and press enter:
    1. `y`/`Y`: To move picture to pickdir
    2. `n`/`N`: To not move picture to pickdir/skip
    3. `b`/`B`: Return to previous file
3. You Ctrl+C when you picked enough files

## Config
Sample config:
```yaml
verbose: false
quiet: false
chooser: ["feh", "-."]
api_key: xd
user_id: 0
threads: 5

downloads:
  - name: default
    autodownload: true
    tags: ""
    lastid: 999999999999
    outputdir: "./output"
    pickdir: "./pick"
    checkdirs:
      - ./pick
```

Explanation:
* `verbose` — Equivalent to `-v`/`--verbose` global flag
* `quiet` — Equivalent to `-q`/`--quiet` global flag
* `chooser` — Equivalent to `--chooser` pick flag, except it's defined as yaml list/array
* `api_key` — Equivalent to `--api_key` global flag
* `user_id` — Equivalent to `--user_id` global flag
* `threads` — Equivalent to `-t`/`--threads` fetch flag
* `downloads` — Array of this structure:
    * `name` — Download identifier, shows when downloading
    * `autodownload` — Set false to not download automatically, use `-d`/`--download` flag to manually download
    * `tags` — Gelbooru search tags
    * `lastid` — Last downloaded post ID, fetcher stops when post ID is lesser than last ID, set to 0 to download all
    * `outputdir` — Directory to download files to, should exist!
    * `pickdir` — Directory to move files to if picked, should exist too!
    * `checkdirs` — Array of directories to check images, if image exists in those folders it will not be downloaded, may not exists

Only fields that is required: `downloads` and it's children

## Recommendations
1. Set chooser to `mpv --loop --autofit=90%x90%` if you plan to pick videos, but mpv is so much slower, be warned
2. One Ctrl+C is enough, please wait for arts to download to avoid corrupted files
3. Include pickdir into checkdirs (if it doesn't contradict your usage of program), just in case
